L-Luxembourg: radiation protection information and training video film

2008/S 195-257876

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attention: Mr Klaus Schnuer ? EUFO 4455, Jean Monnet Building ? Main Entrance, plateau de Kirchberg, rue Albert Wehrer, L-2920 Luxembourg. Tel.  (352) 43 01-36388. Fax  (352) 43 01-34646. E-mail: Klaus.Schnuer@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Radiation protection information and training video film.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 27.
Main place of performance: The tasks will be performed on the contractor's premises.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.4) Information on framework agreement
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The European Commission department responsible for radiation protection intends to provide this necessary information by the means of a short video film. The planned information and training video film will therefore be attended by Commission staff, contract workers or frequent visitors carrying out any sort of activity inside the nuclear laboratories located in the Euroforum administrative building. It should deliver appropriate information about the particularities their work involves.
In the light of the above-mentioned situation and in order to comply with European and Luxembourg national radiation protection legislation the Radiation Protection Unit of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy and Transport has published this call for tender aimed at receiving offers for the production of a radiation protection information and training video film. The video film will be followed by workers and visitors with different levels of vocational training background and with different professional expertise. Therefore, the video film should be arranged in such a way that the educational content takes into account this diversity in the qualification and experience of the persons attending the film. Other aspects of the content of the information video film are the particular work activities in the different locations of the EUFO building. These non-nuclear activities require particular health protection measures in order to combine both radiological protection principles and health and safety requirements. The film should ensure that workers and visitors are correctly informed about the radiological risk their work involves.
In order to satisfy these demands the Radiation Protection Unit will award a contract to a recognised firm with experience in radiation protection information as well as being recognised for the production of high-quality training and information films. In the light of the above, it seems appropriate that the production of the film is performed in 2 steps:
1. drafting of a script;
2. production of the video film.
These 2 parts of the contract may be realised by 1 or more firms but only 1 contract will be awarded.
Consequently:
? The script may be drafted by a firm specialised in the area of radiation protection information and training. The content shall be divided into 3 parts. First, general information about the nuclear activities inside the EUFO building. The second part should provide information on ionising radiation, radioactivity and radiological risks and the third part shall show how to enter and exit the different nuclear activity areas. Furthermore, information shall be given on how workers or visitors shall react in case of an incident or accident. Particular emphasis should be given to information on precautions to be taken in respect to the working conditions and inform workers and visitors on the importance of complying with the technical, medical and administrative requirements in the field of radiation protection. The script shall be drafted in close co-operation with the Commission service responsible for health protection. The Commission Health Protection Service will approve the script.
? The video film shall be produced on the basis of the approved script. It should deliver information by using film sequences as well as computer-animated scenes. Film scenes should be used for information about the particularities of the EUFO building and on the nuclear activities in the respective areas and locales. Furthermore, the film scenes should demonstrate the procedures for entry and exit of nuclear areas. Computer-animated film scenes could be used for providing basis information about radioactivity, radiation and radiological risks. The film scenes may be shot inside the EUFO building or in other similar locations if appropriate.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
92111100.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The amount of work involved to carry out the contract is assessed to be in the order of 90 man-days.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in Annex 5, the draft service contract.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, which will be, 'vis-à-vis' the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (in their entirety) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
? All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on 1 of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate.
? If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person. Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in Annex 1 and also provide the above-mentioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers shall provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity by submitting an annual turnover of a minimum of EUR 400 000, for the past 3 years. Tenderers shall provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers should demonstrate their administrative, technical and professional capacities for the realisation of the envisaged video film. The main contractor may be a firm with core activities in the field of scientific video film production or a firm with recognised competence in radiation protection information and training with didactic background. The one or the other firm may subcontract work to a firm with the necessary complementary expertise. The tenderer shall provide evidence of his technical and professional capacity and, where appropriate, of the subcontractor by delivery of the following information:
1) proof of at least 3 years' experience in producing visual communication media in the field of technical and scientific information and training;
2) a list of the principal deliveries produced in the past 3 years in the field of visual scientific or technological information transfer. Emphasis will be given to such projects dealing with radiological protection;
3) a description of the tenderer's technical facilities and infrastructure which permit the conducting of the full work programme;
4) a description of the quality assurance, the terminology used and technical standards of the final product;
5) indication which parts of the work programme the tenderer intends to subcontract.
If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the offer, each of them shall demonstrate the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them. Tenderers should provide with their offer the detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience and linguistic skills. The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance with the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L 79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/H4/89-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 21.11.2008 (4:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
28.11.2008 (4:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tenders).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
Date: 9.12.2008 (10:30).
Place: Euroforum Building, Room 4158, 1, rue Henry M. Schnadt, L-2530 Luxembourg.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the website of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman B.P. 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/home/en/default.htm.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
Within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, on the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have an effect to either suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
26.9.2008. 