B-Brussels: services related to the organisation of conferences, exhibitions and other events

2008/S 145-194455

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Marie Wolfcarius, Rue Demot 28, 01/064, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Fax  (32-2) 295 58 43. E-mail: tren-events@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Address of the buyer profile: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, DM 28, 0/110, Archives, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel.
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
General public services.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Services related to the organisation of conferences, exhibitions and other events.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 11.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
The establishment of a framework agreement.
II.1.4) Information on framework agreement:
Framework agreement with several operators.
Number of participants to the framework agreement envisaged: 3.
Duration of the framework agreement: duration in year(s): 4
Estimated total value of purchases for the entire duration of the framework agreement:
Estimated value excluding VAT: EUR 8 000 000.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
Information and communication services in the field of organisation of events in the 27 Member States of the European Union, candidate countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey), EFTA countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland) and possibly other countries outside European countries.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74422000, 74860000, 74876000, 74872000, 74861000, 74844000, 74411000, 74877000, 78124000, 78190000, 78200000, 92312211.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 48 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
See tender specifications.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortium) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis à vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (in their entirety) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
all tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on one of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate. If the tenderer is a natural person, they must provide a copy of their identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that they are covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years.
This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must comply with the following criteria:
criterion 1: previous expertise and experience in carrying out the requested services (during the last 3 years);
criterion 2: the necessary technical skills to carry out the requested services;
criterion 3: the necessary language skills to carry out the requested services in all the official languages of the European Union and of the candidate countries.
Tenderers must provide the following documents to prove that they satisfy these criteria:
criterion 1:
? list of main clients and services provided during the last 3 years, indicating the value, the date and the public or private recipient of the services rendered;

? detailed CVs ? including educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills ? of the staff designated by the tenderer to perform the work related to the tender. CVs will preferably be presented in accordance with the Commission's recommendation relating to a common European format ( http://europass.cedefop.eu.int/europass/home/hornav/Downloads/EuropassCV/CVExamples/navigate.action);
? examples of information and communication work done in the area covered by the tender in the past 3 years. If this work was done in part by subcontractors, tenderers must clearly indicate their own role and contribution;
? tenders from consortiums of undertakings or groups of service providers must specify the title, the role and the experience of each of the members of the consortium or group. In such cases, one of the tenderers must be designated as the main contractor;
criterion 2:
? list of the technical equipment and material available to the tenderer to deliver the services relating to this call for tenders;
? list of the services to be provided by the tenderer directly and those which may be subcontracted;
? description of the measures taken by the tenderer to ensure quality control of the services provided;
? description of the subcontractors already selected by the tenderer which may be used for certain types of work;
? indication of the average annual workforce of the service provider during the last 3 years;
criterion 3:
? description of the language abilities of the tenderer.
This document must demonstrate the tenderer's capacity to ensure language coverage in several languages of the European Union and, where appropriate, their capacity to mobilise the necessary resources in order to cover the 23 official languages of the European Union, and the 3 languages of the candidate countries (Croatian, Macedonian and Turkish). Examples should be given of previous work in EU languages other than the tenderer's own language.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/74-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 10.9.2008 (12:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
22.9.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tender).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
30.9.2008 (11:00).
Place: DM24 07/050.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
Each tenderer may be represented by not more than 1 person.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
17.7.2008. 