L-Luxembourg: supply contract for fast neutron monitors

2008/S 135-180430

Contract notice

Supplies


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, Direction I ? Nuclear Safeguards, attn: Ms A. Adams-Webel/Mr Boella, EUFO 3484, Euroforum Building, 1, rue Henry M. Schnadt, Zone d'activités Cloche d'Or, L-2530 Luxembourg. Tel.  (352) 43 01-32034. Fax  (352) 43 01-36059. E-mail: TREN-I1-CFT@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Supply contract for fast neutron monitors.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Supplies.
Purchase.
Main place of delivery: Contractor's premises.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
It is the purpose of the contract to make the required instruments available to the Commission. It is intended to purchase 20 neutron monitors, plus spare parts.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
30200000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
20 neutron monitors, including spare parts.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 30 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
Pre-financing:
The payment of the pre-financing will be made within 30 days from registration of the invoice, drawn up in triplicate and bearing the contract number. The contractor shall provide a financial guarantee in the form of a bank guarantee or equivalent supplied by an authorised bank or financial institution (guarantor) equal to the amount of the pre-financing. The guarantor shall pay to the Commission at its request an amount corresponding to payments made by it to the contractor which have not yet been covered by equivalent delivery of goods or execution of related services on his part. The guarantor shall stand as first-call guarantor and shall not require the Commission to have recourse against the principal debtor (the contractor). The guarantee shall specify that it enters into force on the date on which the contractor receives the pre-financing. The Commission shall release the guarantor from its obligations as soon as the contractor has demonstrated that any pre-financing has been covered by equivalent delivery of goods or execution of related services. The guarantee shall be retained until the pre-financing has been deducted from payment of the balance. It shall be discharged the following month. The cost of providing such guarantee shall be borne by the contractor.
Payment of the balance:
Within 60 days of receipt by the contractor of the certificate of acceptance of the goods by the Commission, he shall submit the relevant invoice, drawn up in triplicate and bearing the contract number, to the Commission for approval. Where required in either the special conditions or Annex I, it shall be accompanied by a final technical report in accordance with the instructions laid down in Annex I and provided for in the special conditions. On receipt of the documents the Commission shall have the period of time indicated in the special conditions in which:
? to approve them, with or without comments, reservations or requests for additional information, or
? to request new documents.
If the Commission does not react within this period, the documents shall be deemed to have been approved. Approval of the documents accompanying the request for payment does not imply recognition either of their regularity, or of the authenticity, completeness or correctness of the declarations or information enclosed. Where the Commission requests new documents, these shall be submitted within the period of time indicated in the special conditions. The new documents shall likewise be subject to the above provisions.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in Annex 6, the draft supply contract.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, 'vis-à-vis' the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firm or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
? All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on 1 of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate,
? if the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person.
Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in Annex 1 and also provide the above-mentioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers should submit proof to show that:
? they have experience in the area of fast neutrons detection and to submit as evidence of this a list of relevant activities for the previous 2 years,
? they employ an engineer with more than 3 years' professional experience in nuclear measurement techniques,
? they employ personnel with experience in neutron physics and good command of English, French or German,
? they have sufficient staff to meet the delivery times laid out in the 'technical requirements'.
For all the points mentioned above supporting documentation will have to be provided.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/I1/44-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 28.8.2008.
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
3.9.2008.
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tenders).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
12.9.2008 (10:00).
Place: Eufo 2/392.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman B.P. 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/home/en/default.htm.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
Within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, of the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have as an effect either to suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
3.7.2008. 