L-Luxembourg: framework service contract for maintenance of measurement equipment for spent nuclear fuel (Fork II detector)

2008/S 130-172513

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, Directorate I ? Nuclear Safeguards, attn: Ms A. Adams-Webel/Mr Boella, Euroforum Complex, 1 rue Henry M. Schnadt, Zone d'activites Cloche d'Or, EURO 3484, L-2530 Luxembourg. Tel.  (352) 43 01-32034. Fax  (352) 43 01-36059. E-mail: TREN-I1-CFT@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Framework service contract for maintenance of measurement equipment for spent nuclear fuel (Fork II detector).
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 01.
Main place of performance: contractor's premises.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
The establishment of a framework agreement.
II.1.4) Information on framework agreement:
Framework agreement with a single operator.
Duration of the framework agreement: duration in months: 36
Estimated total value of purchases for the entire duration of the framework agreement:
Estimated value excluding VAT: EUR 225 000.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The European Commission owns a total of 14 units of the Fork II detector system (for the verification of irradiated nuclear fuel elements, stored under water) that were purchased from Studiecentrum Voor Kernenergie ? Centre d'Etude de l'Energie Nucleaire (SCK-CEN), B-Mol.
All maintenance shall be performed in agreement with the European Commission.
The tenderer will be required to carry out the following type of work: functional tests of Fork detectors.
The quote shall be given for both:
? a simple functional test: this test should be performed to guarantee that all connections and electronics (counter signals and bias voltages) work properly. The simple functional test should normally be performed after each decontamination of a Fork II detector system (upon return after an in-field use). The test should be performed by placing 2 radioactive sources (a gamma source and a neutron source, supplied by and licensed to the tenderer) close to the detector. This test is to check the integrity of fission chambers and ionisation counters, preamplifiers, cables and electronics by observing the recorded signals as generated by the sources;
? an in-depth test (upon specific DG TREN request): in order to confirm the functionality of the Fork II system, on the premises of the tenderer, the detector head has to be placed in a known flux of neutron and/or gamma radiation ? using well characterised 137Cs gamma (at least 200 mGy/h at reference point) and 252Cf (about 1000 neutron/cm2/s) spontaneous fission neutron sources in a known and reproducible geometry.
The recordings of those tests should document the detector response with time.
The tenderer should also suggest a test scheme for neutron/gamma counters and electronic parts (charge sensitive preamplifier and high voltage RC coupling networks) of the detector.
Storage of complete Fork II detector systems. A fixed price offer for the safe storage of complete fork detector systems for a period of 1 year should be provided. Each unit contains approximately 550mg of 235U. A suitable room or delimited part of it (with controlled access) with an adapted infrastructure is to be proposed. The quote shall also cover the storage of similarly-packed Under Water Coincidence Counter (UWCC) detectors. We expect that the storage of up to 10 units shall be needed. For reference: a typical Fork II system is packed in 4 transport cases: approximate dimensions are 80x50x60 cm (25 kg) + 60x40x50 cm (25 kg) + 60x40x25cm (5 kg) + 225x35x40 cm (50 kg). The dimensions of the transport case for the electronics unit are approximately 70x50x50 cm.
Decontamination of a Fork II detector. Following the use in an installation (typically in the wet storage pond of a nuclear reactor) a Fork II detector might be radioactively contaminated. Prior to storage or redeployment, each Fork II detector system thus has to be decontaminated. To perform this task the tenderer should have all necessary equipment such as decontamination agents, ultra-sound cleaning baths, etc. The quote for a decontamination of a Fork II detector should include the tenderer's own handling and administrative costs (like the cost for preparation of the documents for a receipt or shipment of nuclear material and the cost for disposal of the resulting radioactive waste). The tenderer should confirm that the quoted price is also applicable for the decontamination of the physically-similar UWCC detector, which is used for the verification of fresh MOX elements, stored under water. We are expecting about 5 decontaminations per year ? the exact figure cannot be forecasted as it depends on a number of flexible operational conditions.
Ad-hoc maintenance services. A mechanism for ad-hoc maintenance shall be established for unexpected troubleshooting diagnostics, repair and replacement of missing/damaged parts or other maintenance projects that might be necessary. Breakdown maintenance shall be carried out as swiftly as possible. For the ad-hoc tasks, the tenderer's quote shall include hourly rates for:a) engineer,b) technician, and/or c) workshop use materials and tooling used for service.
a) The tenderer has to have the ability to provide suitable materials for carrying out the work specified in the above points as well as materials for operation and maintenance of the equipment supplied.
b) The tenderer will have to supply, at short notice, small items of material and tooling to facilitate the maintenance of Fork equipment such as that associated with Section I.2.4. above.
c) Replacement of defective or missing parts: In cases where parts of a detector must be replaced in order to carry out a work order, the tenderer will contact the Commission and the procedure described under I.3. will be followed.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
50000000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The indicative maximum amount is EUR 225 000 (up to 3 years, EUR 75 000 per year).
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in the draft framework service contract. Payments shall be made within 30 days of the date of approval of the services by the Commission. No pre-financing shall normally be provided. Nevertheless, if the contractor wishes to receive a pre-financing, he shall provide a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of pre-financing granted.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortium) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firm or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
? All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on one of the professional or trade registers, or provide a declaration or certificate.
? If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person. Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in annex 1 and also provide the above-mentioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents:
the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years.
This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:the tenderers should:
1) demonstrate that they have staff with proven expertise in the area of maintenance of measurement instrumentation used in the field of nuclear inspections. The tenderers must provide proof that they can assure the maintenance and storage of Fork equipment and have the required licences;
2) demonstrate that they have sufficient staff to assure the completion of maintenance tasks in a timely manner;
4) list the main services and tasks delivered in the relevant domain during the last 5 years;
5) indicate which parts of the contract they intend to subcontract.
If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have and show that they have the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them. Tenderers should provide with their offer detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills. The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance to the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L79 of 22 March 2002, p. 66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/I1/29-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 20.8.2008.
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
27.8.2008.
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tender).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
Date: 5.9.2008 (10:00).
Place: EUFO II - 2392.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
One representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/home/en/default.htm.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals: within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, on the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have an effect to either suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
26.6.2008. 