B-Brussels: EU energy star programme: development and maintenance of the web site and technical support for the development of new technical specifications

2008/S 129-170653

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Mauro Moschettini, Rue de Mot 24, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 298 78 55. Fax  (32-2) 296 60 16. E-mail: Mauro.Moschettini@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Address of the buyer profile: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
Transport and energy.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
EU energy star programme: development and maintenance of the web site and technical support for the development of new technical specifications.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category No 11.
Main place of performance:
the tasks will be performed on the contractor's premises. However, meetings between the contractor and the Commission may be held on Commission premises in B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
NUTS code: BE10.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
The establishment of a framework agreement.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
EU energy star programme: development and maintenance of the web site and technical support for the development of new technical specifications. Web site development and maintenance and technical support for the development of new technical specifications.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73200000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
Yes.
Tenders should be submitted for: all lots.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
For lot 1, the total amount of work has been estimated at 70 mandays. For lot 2, the total amount of work has been estimated at 80 mandays.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time-limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Information about lots

Lot No 1

Title: Web site development and maintenance
1) Short description:

The EU Energy star web site ( http://www.eu-energystar.org) is an essential instrument for the implementation of the EC Energy Star Programme which aims at improving the energy efficiency of office equipment.
2) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73200000.
3) Quantity or scope:
For lot 1, the total amount of work has been estimated at 70 mandays.
4) Indication about different date for duration of contract or starting/completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).

Lot No 2

Title: Technical support for the development of new technical specifications
1) Short description:
The task is to advise the European Commission and the European Community Energy Star Board (ECESB) in developing new specifications for revising the Annex C to the Agreement.
2) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73200000.
3) Quantity or scope:
For lot 2, the total amount of work has been estimated at 80 mandays.
4) Indication about different date for duration of contract or starting/completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in Annex 5, the draft service contract. Payments under the contract shall be made in accordance with Article II.4. Payments shall be executed only if the contractor has fulfilled all his contractual obligations by the date on which the invoice is submitted. Payment requests may not be made if payments for previous periods have not been executed as a result of default or negligence on the part of the contractor.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortium) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis à vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (in their entirety) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
The Commission will use the following criteria to check tenderers' qualifications. Insufficient proof will exclude the tender from further consideration.
For lot 1:
proven skills, experience and very high degree of competence is required as follows:
? in the field of energy efficiency technology of products and notably with for office equipment,
? in the field of Community energy efficiency policy,
? communicating and co-operating at European level, including with industrial and public authority actors,
? experience in drafting and editing quality documents, organising meetings and workshops, disseminating information and creating and running internet-based information tools and web sites.
For lot 2:
? knowledge and experience of at least 5 years in the field of energy efficiency of products,
? knowledge and experience of at least 3 years in the field of office equipment technology and market development of the sector world-wide,
? experience in relevant international discussions and forums,
? evidence of experience in engineering or testing or study or research in the field of energy consumption of office equipment,
? experience in negotiation in an international context,
? fluency in English, both written and spoken,
? independence from related industrial and commercial interests for the complete duration of the contract.
If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have and show that they have the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them.
Tenderers should provide with their offer detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills. The CV's shall be presented, preferably, in accordance to the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66. Tenderers should also provide with their offer the references (web link) of similar work (development and maintenance of web site) performed in the recent years.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/D3/449-2008/Lot...
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 5.8.2008.
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
12.8.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
Date: 22.8.2008 (10:00).
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative of each tenderer may attend the official opening.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, Rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, B.P. 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, Rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
23.6.2008. 