B-Brussels: framework contracts for legal, economic and technical services in energy and transport policy

2008/S 62-083192

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Regina Hernandez Escriva, Rue Demot 28, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 296 19 65. Fax  (32-2) 296 83 57. E-mail: regina.hernandez-escriva@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Address of the buyer profile:

http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
Transport and energy.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Framework contracts to provide the Commission with legal, economic and technical services in the field of energy and transport policy.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category No 10.
Main place of performance:
Contractor's premises.
Code NUTS: BE100.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
The establishment of a framework agreement.
II.1.4) Information on framework agreement:
Framework agreement with several operators.
Maximum number of participants to the framework agreement envisaged: 5.
Duration of the framework agreement: 1 year.
Estimated total value of purchases for the entire duration of the framework agreement: EUR 12 000 000, excluding VAT.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The services to be provided, in 3 lots, relate to legal, economical and technical assistance to the contracting authority in the field of transport and energy.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74130000, 74131100.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
Yes.
Tenders should be submitted for 1 or more lots.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The contract is divided into 3 lots. Tenders can bid for several lots by separate tenders. For the 3 lots a 'multiple framework contract with reopened competitions' will be concluded with a maximum of 5 of the best ranked tenders. 'Multiple framework contract with reopened competitions' means a situation whereby separate but identical framework contracts are concluded between the Commission and the selected tenderers, setting out the general contractual terms (legal, financial, technical, administrative, etc.) that apply during their period of validity and govern commercial relations between the Commission and the contractors.
For lot 1 the indicative maximum amount is EUR 2 000 000 (up to 4 years).
For lot 2 the indicative maximum amount is EUR 5 000 000 (up to 4 years).
For lot 3 the indicative maximum amount is EUR 5 000 000 (up to 4 years).
Specific contracts will not be signed once the budget is exhausted.
II.2.2) Options:
Yes.
Description of these options:
The framework contract can be renewed for maximum 3 1-year periods. The total duration of the framework contract will not exceed 4 years from when it is first signed.
Provisional timetable for recourse to these options: 12 months from the award of the contract.
Number of possible renewals: 3.
In the case of renewable supplies or service contracts, estimated timeframe for subsequent contracts: 12 months from the award of the contract.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time-limit for completion:
12 months from the award of the contract.


Information about lots

Lot No 1

Title: Legal assistance
1) Short description:
Legal assistance in the field of energy and transport (see tender specifications).
2) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74130000, 74131100.
3) Quantity or scope:
For lot 1 the indicative maximum amount is EUR 2 000 000 (4 years).
Estimated cost excluding VAT: EUR 2 000 000.
4) Indication about different date for duration of contract or starting/completion:
12 months from the award of the contract.
5) Additional information about lots:
Tenders can bid for several lots by separate tenders.

Lot No 2

Title: Economic assistance
1) Short description:
Economic assistance in the field of energy and transport.
2) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74130000, 74131100.
3) Quantity or scope:
For lot 2 the indicative maximum amount is EUR 5 000 000 (up to 4 years).
Estimated cost excluding VAT: EUR 5 000 000.
4) Indication about different date for duration of contract or starting/completion:
12 months from the award of the contract.
5) Additional information about lots:
Tenders can bid for several lots by separate tenders.

Lot No 3

Title: Technical assistance
1) Short description:
Technical assistance in the field of energy and transport (see tender specifications).
2) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74130000, 74131100.
3) Quantity or scope:
For lot 3 the indicative maximum amount is EUR 5 000 000 (up to 4 years).
Estimated cost excluding VAT: EUR 5 000 000.
4) Indication about different date for duration of contract or starting/completion:
12 months from the award of the contract.
5) Additional information about lots:
Tenders can bid for several lots by separate tenders.


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
Guarantee on pre-financing: for any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for a financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in the draft framework contract and in the draft specific contract, attached to the terms of reference.
II.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groups, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a group, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groups (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid.
If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group.
Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
Yes.
The applicant must provide evidence of employing directly or being readily capable of constituting a team of experts capable of carrying out in a professional and timely manner the tasks requested under the framework contract (see tender documents).
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
See tender specifications.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents:
the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and
a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years.
This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
The tenderers' technical competence will be determined as follows:
in view of the specific nature of the contract, bids must take into account the fact that, as a general rule, the services requested are likely to take place in the 27 Member States, in the EFTA/EEA countries (Switzerland, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), in the EU Candidate Countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey) and in any other country where energy/transport issues are likely to be of Community interest. Tenderers must therefore demonstrate their ability to mobilise, at any time, a team which can cover all official languages of the European Union. They must also demonstrate their ability to manage and coordinate this team. The team must have the following qualifications:
? for lot 1: a university degree in law and 7 years' professional experience in Community law relating to transport and energy or any related issue;
? for lot 2: a university degree in economics and 7 years' professional experience in economic or statistical analysis.
? for lot 3: a university science or technology degree and 7 years' professional experience in the fields of transport and energy or any related issue.
For the 3 lots the team must also have:
? a well-balanced composition of relevant legal, economic and technical education (university, post-graduate level);
? well-proven professional experience in Community policies relating to transport and energy, research, infrastructures, environment, sustainable development and social aspects;
? excellent communication and drafting skills in English;
? well-proven professional track-record in providing results in paper and electronic format, to the highest standards of industry/research.
See also tender specifications.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/R1/350.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time-limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 5.5.2008 (16:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time-limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
15.5.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
6 months from the date stated for receipt of tenders.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
23.5.2008 (10:00).
Place: Rue Demot 28 (ground floor, meeting room 00/31), B-1040 Bruxelles/Brussel.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
One representative of each tenderer may attend the official opening.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.euro-ombudsman.europa.eu
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals: within 2 months of the plaintiff being notified or, failing this, of the day on which it came to his knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman will neither suspend this period nor open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
19.3.2008. 