L-Luxembourg: purchase of portable multichannel analyser module

2008/S 84-113462

Contract notice

Supplies


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, Direction I ? Nuclear Safeguards, attn: Ms A. Adams-Webel/Mr Boella, EUFO 3358, Euroforum Complex, 1, rue Henry M. Schnadt, Zone d'activités Cloche d'Or, L-2530 Luxembourg. Tel.  (352) 43 01-32034. Fax  (352) 43 01-36059. E-mail: TREN-I1-CFT@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Purchase of portable multichannel analyser module.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Supplies.
Purchase.
Main place of delivery:
Contractor's premises.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
In order to replace old equipment and cover the need for inspection activities in the new Member States new multichannel analyser modules must be purchased. The tendering company will be required to supply 45 instruments which conform to the technical specifications.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
30236000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
45 instruments, including accessories.
II.2.2) Options:
Yes.
Description of these options: A suitable portable computer could be offered as an option, including accessories for establishing the communication (preference USB) with the multichannel analyser unit. Software compatible with the MiniMCA.DLL for specific nuclear safeguards applications may be offered as an option. These options will be not taken into account for the financial offer.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time-limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in Annex 5, the draft supply contract.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, 'vis-à-vis' the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firm or groups of services providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
? All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on 1 of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate.
? If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person.
Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in Annex 1 and also provide the above-mentioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers should submit proof to show that:
? they have experience in the area of gamma spectrometry: as evidence of this, they should submit a list of activities for the previous 2 years,
? they employ an engineer with more than 3 years' professional experience in nuclear measurement techniques,
? they employ personnel with experience in gamma spectrometry and good command of English, French or German,
? they have sufficient staff to meet the delivery times laid out in the paragraph II.3 'Duration of the tasks'.
For all the points mentioned above supporting documentation will have to be provided.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/I1/111/2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time-limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 16.6.2008 (16:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time-limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
24.6.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in months: 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tenders).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
2.7.2008 (10:00).
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
One representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/home/en/default.htm.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
Within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, of the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have as an effect either to suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
18.4.2008. 