
IARC Fellowships for Cancer Research

Since 1966, IARC has awarded more than 500 fellowships to junior scientists for research training in cancer. Approximately 85% of Fellows return to their home country on completion of their training, and around 82% remain active in cancer research. As a result, IARC Fellowships have made a substantial contribution to the development of cancer research in many countries.

    * Programme director: P. Boffetta
    * Tel:+33 4 72 73 84 48; Fax:+33 4 72 73 80 80

At present, the IARC Fellowship programme is partially supported by the Italian Association for Research on Cancer.

The Fellowship Programme has been reorganized to offer postdoctoral fellowships to junior scientists from low- or medium-resource countries who wish to complete their training at the IARC in Lyon, France working in a research Group.

A Visiting Scientist Award is also offered for a qualified and experienced investigator who wishes to spend from six to twelve months at the IARC working on a collaborative project in a research area related to the Agency?s programmes.

IARC is also offering an Expertise Transfer Fellowship to enable an established investigator to spend from six to twelve months in an appropriate host institute in a low- / medium-resource country in order to transfer knowledge and expertise in a research area relevant for the host country and related to the Agency?s programmes.
DEADLINE FOR RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS IS: 30 November 2008

More information regarding the next call for applications for the new Ph.D. training programme for junior scientists from low- or medium-resource countries will be provided shortly.

Fellowships available from the International Union Against Cancer (UICC)

For information on other postdoctoral opportunities at IARC, see here
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS FOR TRAINING IN CANCER RESEARCH

Applications for training fellowships in 2009-2010 are invited from junior scientists from low- or medium-resource countries wishing to complete their training in those aspects of cancer research related to the Agency's mission: to coordinate and conduct both epidemiological and laboratory research into the causes of cancer. Disciplines covered include: epidemiology, biostatistics, environmental chemical carcinogenesis, cancer etiology and prevention, infection and cancer, molecular cell biology, molecular genetics, molecular pathology and mechanisms of carcinogenesis, with emphasis on interdisciplinary projects.
VISITING SCIENTIST AWARD FOR SENIOR SCIENTISTS

The IARC is offering a Visiting Scientist Award for a qualified and experienced investigator with recent publications in international peer-reviewed scientific journals who wishes to spend from six to twelve months at the IARC working on a collaborative project in a research area related to the Agency's programmes: epidemiology, biostatistics, environmental chemical carcinogenesis, cancer etiology and prevention, infection and cancer, molecular cell biology, molecular genetics, molecular pathology and mechanisms of carcinogenesis.
EXPERTISE TRANSFER FELLOWSHIP

The IARC is offering an Expertise Transfer Fellowship to enable an established investigator to spend normally from six to twelve months in an appropriate host institute in a low- / medium-resource country* in order to transfer knowledge and expertise in a research area relevant for the host country and related to the Agency's programmes: epidemiology, biostatistics, environmental chemical carcinogenesis, cancer etiology and prevention, infection and cancer, molecular cell biology, molecular genetics, molecular pathology and mechanisms of carcinogenesis.
CANCER RESEARCH TRAINING FELLOWSHIPS - PH.D. PROGRAMME (2007)

A limited number of Ph.D. Fellowships are available for junior scientists from low- or medium-resource countries who are committed to pursuing a career in cancer research and have a Master's degree in an appropriate subject (medicine, epidemiology, biostatistics, genetics, laboratory research) and wish to study for a Ph.D. degree in the field of epidemiology or biostatistics in a research Group at IARC in Lyon.
ECNIS Training Fellowships

ECNIS is a newly established European Network of Excellence on Environment, Nutrition and Individual Susceptibility to Cancer. Details are available from the website www.ecnis.org.
IARC Research Training

See Fellowships awarded from 1966-2007
30 Years of Experience

The IARC fellowship programme was initiated in 1966. At the time the programme was set up, and for a significant period of time, an IARC Fellowship was one of the few ways to obtain training in cancer research in a major institute in another country. Between 1966-1996, over 446 such fellowships were awarded to talented young scientists from over 58 countries.

In 1996, the impact of the IARC fellowships programme was evaluated. The results of this analysis are presented here.

Read also: R. Montesano & E. El Akroud (1999) International Agency for Research on Cancer fellowships programme - over 30 years of experience, Carcinogenesis [Commentary], 20, 11, 2041-2044.
