B-Brussels: study on separation of accounts of railway undertakings and rail infrastructure managers

2008/S 62-083191

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Mr Thomas Kaufmann, Rue Demot 28, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 298 75 95. Fax  (32-2) 299 02 62. E-mail: thomas.kaufmann@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Address of the buyer profile: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
Transport.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Study on separation of accounts of railway undertakings and rail infrastructure managers.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category No 11.
Main place of performance:
the tasks will be performed on the contractor's premises. However, meetings between the contractor and the Commission may be held on Commission premises in B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
Code NUTS: BE100.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The European Commission needs an overview and an analysis of the financial situation of the railway undertakings in the European Union in order to assess to which extent railway undertakings comply with the requirements on account separation that follow from Directive 91/440 as amended by Directive 2001/12/EC. The latter has been adopted in 2001 and is 1 of the 3 Directives of the railway infrastructure package (or first railway package, or infrastructure package, which also includes Directives 2001/13/EC and 2001/14/EC).
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73220000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The amount of work involved to carry out this contract is assessed at 200 man-days, and is mainly expected to be desk-research.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time-limit for completion:
Duration: 8 months from the award of the contract.


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
Guarantee on pre-financing for any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending the on the financial situation of the contractors, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Advance payment ? interim payment ? final payment.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company of the person heading the project, who will be, vis à vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance this contract. Tenders from consortiums of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member or group.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must indicate in which State they have their headquarters or domicile and to present the supporting evidence normally acceptable of that country law. In addition, he should provide evidence of their inscription in the professional/trade register. This could be evidenced either by a sworn statement or by any proof accepted under the law of the Member State in which tenderers are established. If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
to prove their financial and economic capacity, tenderers should provide with their offer the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
? Proven skills and at least 2 years of experience in carrying out studies and/or surveys covering several European countries.
? Proven skills, knowledge and at least 2 years of experience in transport economics, international transport law, European and national railway legislation and its implementation, in particular concerning the areas relevant for the study.
? Proven skills, knowledge and university education in accounting.
Tenderers should provide with their offer a detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills. The CV's shall be presented, preferably, in accordance with the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L 79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66. They should also provide a list of the main services and tasks delivered during the last 5 years as well as related amounts, dates and beneficiaries with mention of the sector they belong to (private/public). They should indicate the part of the contract which they intend to subcontract. If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have and show that they have the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated below:
1. understanding of the terms of reference; weighting: 40;
2. methodology to be used; weighting: 30;
3. composition of the study team; weighting: 30.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/E2/297/2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time-limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 5.5.2008 (16:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time-limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
16.5.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration: 6 months from the date stated for receipt of tenders.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
29.5.2008 (10:00).
Place: 28 Rue Demot, Office 110, B-1160 Bruxelles/Brussel.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
One representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.Registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in the absence thereof, of the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have as an effect either to suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.Registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
19.3.2008. 