B-Brussels: a framework contract to provide expertise, and technical, managerial and logistical support to the implementation of the Single European Sky in south-east Europe (ISIS programme)

2008/S 163-219636

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Alfonso Arroyo, rue Demot 24 ? 05/37, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 299 58 29. Fax  (32-2) 296 83 53. E-mail: alfonso.arroyo@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/transport/index_en.html.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

TREN DG ? Archives, rue Demot 28 ? 01/110, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel.
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
A framework contract to provide expertise, and technical, managerial and logistical support to the implementation of the Single European Sky in the South East Europe (ISIS Programme).
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 11.
Main place of performance: B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
The establishment of a framework agreement.
II.1.4) Information on framework agreement:
Framework agreement with a single operator.
Duration of the framework agreement: duration in year(s): 3.
Estimated total value of purchases for the entire duration of the framework agreement:
estimated value excluding VAT: EUR 2 100 000.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The Commission wishes to have a framework contract that shall assist it to conduct a programme established to support the implementation of the Single European Sky to the States of south-east Europe, and called 'ISIS' (Implementation of Single European Sky in south-east Europe).
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74100000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
The successful tenderer may be requested to provide a deposit or a bank guarantee (see tender documents).
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Terms of payment figure in the tender documents and are those which are in force for service contracts at the European Commission.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company of the person heading the project, who will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Information must be provided as set out in the standard identification forms attached to these tender specifications:
? Annex I ? tender identification,
? Annex II ? financial identification,
? Annex III ? legal entities.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their technical capacity by means of:
? educational qualifications and work experience of staff involved in the project,
? list of the main services and tasks delivered during the last past years as well as related amounts, dates and beneficiaries with mention of the sectors they belong to (public/private),
? solid working experience in the south-east Europe region, in-depth knowledge of the political environment in the beneficiary States, and proven ability to liaise with the relevant national civil and military authorities of the countries involved,
? knowledge of relevant Community policies in relation to aviation and air traffic management in particular, and proven ability to understand Single European Sky legislation and to support its implementation in national law,
? understanding of research and development activities leading to the development of the future management system (both technical and operational) and knowledge of SESAR,
? knowledge of relevant policies, structures and activities of international organisations linked to the project like Eurocontrol, NATO and ICAO in the field of air traffic management,
? knowledge of civil-military cooperation and coordination in the field of aviation,
? ability to perform secretarial tasks at international meetings and working groups and to conduct long-range programmes in the field of air traffic management,
? ability to provide appropriate premises in Brussels for the ISIS Permanent Secretariat (IPS) at the signature of the contract,
? fluent written and spoken English for the staff involved in the project is necessary. Good knowledge of certain staff in regional language highly appreciated.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/F2-395/2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 29.9.2008 (18:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
4.10.2008 (18:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tender).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
Date: 10.10.2008 (10:30).
Place: rue Demot 28, B-1040 Bruxelles/Brussel (mail department: ground floor, office 110).
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
This opening session will be public. Each tenderer may be represented by not more than 1 person.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call can be downloaded from the website of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: ecj.registry@curia.eu.int. URL: http://curia.eu.int.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.eu.int. URL: http://www.euro-ombudsman.eu.int.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
within 2 months of the date of notification of the claimant or, failing this, the date on which he was informed thereof. The lodging of a complaint with the European Ombudsman can neither suspend the deadline nor give rise to a new deadline.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: ecj.registry@curia.eu.int. URL: http://curia.eu.int.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
13.8.2008. 