L-Luxembourg: deposit boxes arrangement

2008/S 203-268714

Contract notice

Supplies


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attention: Mr Klaus Schnuer — EUFO 4455, Jean Monnet Building — main entrance, rue Albert Wehrer, plateau de Kirchberg, L-2920 Luxembourg. Tel.  (352) 43 01-36388. Fax  (352) 43 01-34646. E-mail: Klaus.Schnuer@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Deposit boxes arrangement (Schliessfachanlage, armoire à casiers).
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Supplies.
Purchase.
Main place of delivery: The tasks will be performed on the contractor's premises and the deposit boxes arrangement will be installed inside the Commission's Euroforum office building in L-Luxembourg.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The European Commission Directorate-General for Energy and Transport would like to purchase an arrangement consisting of about 240 individual letterbox-type small lockers.
Each locker should be locked by an individual key or by an electronic system. In order to have access to all of these individual lockers at the time, there should be a possibility to open a group of lockers together in 1 action. Therefore, an even number of the small doors for the individual lockers shall be mounted in a larger door frame. It should be possible to open this door frame in order to give direct access to the small lockers behind. Since the installation will stand against the wall, this common opening must be done to the front of the installation.
The items to be stored in each of the small lockers are 1 standard EU passport sized document and 2 items of about a mobile phone size. Therefore, the inside dimension of each locker should be in the order of 18 cm wide, 20 to 25 cm deep and between 6 and 8 cm high.
Each locker should be individually closed and locked. The opening may be done by an individual key or electronically from a central control unit by introducing an individual code number. In case of a key system each locker door shall show an engraved running number.
There should be a drawer in each of the lockers with a possibility to attach a label at the front.
The installation should be separated into 2 blocks with half the number of the lockers in each arrangement. The outside dimension should not exceed the length of 2,20 metre each. The lower row of lockers should be about 60 cm from ground level and the upper row should be not more than 160 cm above ground level. Therefore, the installation should stand on a rack-type support. The installation will be placed inside the building on PVC-covered concrete floor and only fixed against a concrete wall.
— The side walls of the whole installation may be painted (RAL colour to be defined) but the individual lockers' front doors should be made of polished or brushed metal surface. Since the installation is under permanent surveillance, there are no specific safety requirements but the lockers should be burglar-proof against the use of normal housebreaking tools. As a supplement to this locker installation, 2 deposit safes should be delivered which allow depositing a large number of the above-described items in each of these safes. The 2 safes should stand beside each of the locker arrangements.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
39100000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The amount of work involved to carry out the contract is assessed to be in the order of 130 man-days. The total budget shall include all expenses for travelling and for organising meetings in Luxembourg.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in Annex 5, the draft supply contract.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, which will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (in their entirety) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
— All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on 1 of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate.
— If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person. Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in Annex 1 and also provide the above-mentioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers shall provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity by submitting an annual turnover of a minimum of EUR 400 000, for the past 3 years. Tenderers shall provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers should demonstrate their administrative, technical and professional capacities for the realisation of the envisaged project. In particular offers should provide:
1: information on projects realised by the tenderer similar to the envisaged deposit boxes arrangement or about products manufactured during the last 3 years in the field of physical protection infrastructure such as bank safes or deposit arrangements for valuables;
2: experience of the staff working in the field of mechanical and electronical engineering;
3: information on the measures that the tenderers will take to guarantee the good execution of the tasks over the period of 1 year i.e. proof of the existence of an appropriate infrastructure for the manufacturing of the installation;
4: information about the tenderer's ISO quality assurance certification;
5: information about the rapid availability in the EUFO building in Luxemburg for service, or in case of urgency for maintenance or repair;
6: part of the contract which the service provider intends to subcontract.
If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the offer, each of them shall demonstrate the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them.
Tenderers should provide with their offer the detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills. The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance with the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L 79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/I1/248-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 5.12.2008 (4:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
12.12.2008 (4:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tenders).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
Date: 22.12.2008 (10:30).
Place: European Commission, EUFO Building, Room 4158 — 1, rue Henri M. Schnadt, L-2530 Luxembourg.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the website of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman B.P. 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/home/en/default.htm.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals: Within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, on the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have an effect to either suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
6.10.2008. 