B-Brussels: real potentials for changes in the growth and use of EU forests

2008/S 175-232684

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attention: Kyriakos Maniatis, rue Demot 24, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 299 02 93. Fax  (32-2) 296 62 61. E-mail: Kyriakos.Maniatis@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Address of the buyer profile: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, rue Demot 24, attention: Kyriakos Maniatis, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel. (32-2) 299 02 93. Fax (32-2) 296 62 61. E-mail: Kyriakos.Maniatis@ec.europa.eu. URL: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
Other: Transport and energy.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Real potentials for changes in the growth and use of EU forests.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 11.
Main place of performance: The tasks will be performed on the contractor's premises. However, meetings between the contractor and the Commission shall be held on Commission premises in B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
NUTS code: BE10.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
This tender seeks to use 'frontier knowledge' at European, national, regional and enterprise levels and across a representative spectrum of EU Member States to make estimations of the real potentials for changes (normally increases) in the use of forests and other wood sources for:
energy (household, municipal, industrial, etc.);
wood-processing (including bio-chemicals and bio-materials);
non-wood uses (including biodiversity and recreation).
This analysis will include both qualitative aspects (e.g. factors influencing the (non-)mobilisation of wood) and quantitative ones (economic, logistical).
As a minimum the period from the present up till at least 2030 should be covered, indicating the limitations of forecasts over time.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73220000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The total value of the contract has been estimated at 430 man-days.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 18 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
Guarantee on pre-financing: For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in Annex 5, the draft framework contract.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years.
This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
1) Educational and technical qualifications:
? tenderers should provide with their offer the detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills. The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance with the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L 79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66,
? the tenderers must prove knowledge and a general comprehension of the technical and statistical aspects related to biomass determination in European forests and other sources of woody biomass, as well as a demonstrable ability to make reliable estimates, including predictions, based on partial information.
2) Working experience (number of years):
? the tenderers must provide an experience at least of 5 years in the sector related to biomass determination in European forests and related woody biomass sources.
3) Measures that the tenderers will take to guarantee good execution of the tasks:
? the tenderers must provide proof of their access authorisation to databases related to biomass productivity in European Forests and related woody biomass sources or the capacity to obtain this access should the contract be awarded to them.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/D2/491-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 10.10.2008 (16:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
17.10.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
Date: 27.10.2008 (10:00).
Place: DG TREN.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative of each tenderer may attend the official opening.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this tender can be downloaded on the website of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du President Robert Schuman, BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-21 00. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
29.8.2008. 