B-Brussels: implementation of the TEN-T guidelines for the period 2006?2007

2008/S 48-065616

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Edgar Thielmann, Rue De Mot 28, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 296 96 40. Fax  (32-2) 295 43 49. E-mail: TREN-B1-CALLFORTENDERS@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Address of the buyer profile: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
Other: Transport.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Implementation of the TEN-T guidelines for the period 2006?2007.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category No 11.
Main place of performance:
The tasks will be performed on the contractor?s premises. However, meetings between the contractor and the Commission may be held on Commission premises in B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
Code NUTS: BE10.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The study should assess the achievements in implementing the TEN-T network since 1996 and in the period from the beginning of 2006 to the end of 2007 for the 27 Member States. It should also allow and prepare the assessment of future achievements compared to the situation at the end of 2007 for all the 30 countries in the scope of the study.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73220000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The amount of work is estimated at a maximum of 600 person-days.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time-limit for completion:
Duration: 13 months from the award of the contract.


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
Financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the total pre-financing for the project if higher than EUR 100 000. The Commission may ask for a financial guarantee for pre-financing lower than EUR 100 000 depending on the financial situation of the tenderers.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Advance payment ? interim payment ? final payment.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a group, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit the bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (in their entirety) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on 1 of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate. If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person. Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in Annex 1 and also provide aforementioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide evidence for their technical capacity and professional competence on the following points:
i) excellent knowledge of the transport sector and understanding of the trans-European Transport Network policy;
ii) professional experience in the field of data collection exercises;
iii) professional experience in the fields of infrastructure planning, financial instruments at European level and handling of investment data;
iv) proven experience on project management;
v) ability to handle GIS systems similar to that used by the European Commission;
vi) evidence on easy access to appropriate data sources for the aims of the study.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated below:
1. Understanding of the requirements, methodology and adequacy of the offer to the terms of reference. Weighting: 40.
2. Organisation of data collection. Weighting: 30.
3. General organisational approach, work programme, project team. Weighting: 30.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/B1/118-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time-limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 8.4.2008 (16:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time-limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
21.4.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration: 6 months from the date stated for receipt of tenders.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
6.5.2008 (10:00).
Place: Rue De Mot 28, Office 110, B-1040 Bruxelles/Brussel.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
One representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.Registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals: within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in the absence thereof, of the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have as an effect either to suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.Registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
25.2.2008. 