B-Brussels: study on interoperability ? gas quality harmonisation ? cost benefit analysis except appliances

2008/S 82-110911

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, attn: Mark van Stiphout, Rue Demot 24 06/045, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Fax  (32-2) 298 01 50. E-mail: Mark.Van-Stiphout@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://europa.eu.int/dgs/energy_transport/index_en.html.

Further information can be obtained from:

Mr Zsolt Tasnadi, attn: Mr Mark van Stiphout, Rue Demot 24 06/045, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Fax (32-2) 298 01 50. E-mail: Mark.Van-Stiphout@ec.europa.eu. URL: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained from:

European Commission, attn: Mr Mark van Stiphout, Rue Demot 24 06/045, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Fax (32-2) 298 01 50. E-mail: Mark.Van-Stiphout@ec.europa.eu. URL: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

European Commission, attn: Mr Mark van Stiphout, TREN DG, DM 28 ? 0/110 ? Archives, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. E-mail: Mark.Van-Stiphout@ec.europa.eu. URL: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
General public services.
Transport.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Study on interoperability ? gas quality harmonisation ? cost benefit analysis except appliances.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category No 11.
Main place of performance:
on the contractor's premises. However, meetings between the contractor and the Commission may be held on Commission premises in B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
This study will present a cost benefit analysis for the harmonisation of gas quality in the EU, taking an overall view of the gas industry in the EU, from the production upstream to the supply, including the burner tip (appliances). The study is part of the overall aim to define EU-wide gas quality standards to contribute to the creation of an internal market for gas for all users.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74131200.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The amount of work involved to carry out this contract is assessed at 400 man-months.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time-limit for completion:
24 months from the award of the contract.


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Advance payment, interim payment and final payment in accordance with the provisions of the contract attached to the TOR.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortium) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis à vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (in their entirety) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
see tender specifications.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
1) educational qualifications of project elaborators: university degree(s) in related disciplines;
2) working experience: 15 years for senior and 5 for junior project elaborators;
3) measures that the tenderers will take to guarantee the good execution of the tasks, i.e. proof of the existence of an access authorization to specific databases or the capacity to obtain this access should the contract be awarded to them;
4) list of the main services and tasks delivered during the last 5 years as well as related amounts, dates and beneficiaries with mention of the sector they belong to (private/public);
5) part of the contract which the service provider intends to subcontract;
6) working experience of the applicant and the project elaborators in the field of this project, in particular the field of gas quality and its impact on the supply chain and gas appliances.
If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have, and show that they have, the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them. Tenderers should provide with their offer a detailed curriculum vitae for each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills. The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance to the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L 79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/C2/242-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time-limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 16.5.2008 (16:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time-limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
5.6.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
6 months from the date stated for receipt of tenders.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
16.6.2008 (10:00).
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, of the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have as an effect either to suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
15.4.2008. 