B-Brussels: sustainable energy Europe campaign 2009?2011

2008/S 139-185294

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Pedro Ballestros Torres, Rue Demot 24, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 296 78 39. Fax  (32-2) 296 60 16. E-mail: Pedro.Ballestros@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Address of the buyer profile: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
Transport and energy.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Sustainable Energy Europe Campaign 2009?2011.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 11.
Main place of performance: the tasks will be performed on the contractor's premises. However, meetings between the contractor and the Commission may be held on Commission premises in B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
NUTS code: BE10.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
This work is designed to run and co-ordinate the Sustainable Energy Europe Campaign for the period 2009?2011 encompassing in a horizontal way the 5 campaigning areas:
? sustainable energy communities,
? market transformation,
? promotional, communication and educational actions,
? demonstration and dissemination projects,
? cooperation programmes.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73200000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The total value of the contract has been estimated at no less than 4 800 equivalent person-days.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 40 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in Annex 5 of the draft service contract. Payments under the contract shall be made in accordance with Article II.4. Payments shall be executed only if the contractor has fulfilled all his contractual obligations by the date on which the invoice is submitted. Payment requests may not be made if payments for previous periods have not been executed as a result of default or negligence on the part of the contractor.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortium) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis à vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or group of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (in their entirety) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers should provide a list of the main recent projects carried out in the past 3 years by the staff who would propose to carry out the work (including a self-explanatory title, name of client, start and end dates of project, and approximate budget). Tenderers must confirm and demonstrate that their project team has the skills and experience needed to carry out the work specified in relation to this tender, under point 2, and in accordance with the requirements listed below:
1) Excellent skills and proven experience in marketing, promotion and communication strategy and techniques. Proven experience in the design/conception and implementation of targeted promotion campaigns.
2) Sound knowledge and understanding about EU sustainable energy policy in the different sectors at EU level.
3) Skills and proven experience in networking with market and institutional actors in relation to sustainable energy.
4) Experience in working at EU level and in communicating with the public administrations, the relevant market actors and main stakeholders in the Member States, European Economic Area and candidate countries.
5) Ambition and credibility of the objectives and performance indicators proposed.
6) Excellent English skills. Communication skills in at least 5 other main EU languages are also required for the team.
7) Demonstrated experience in organising international events, including all logistic aspects.
8) Skills in writing clear and concise texts for use on the web, including HTML formats with appropriate links and web-based structures, in publications, in the relations with the media and in other handouts. Proven experience in the production of promotional and information material in several languages. Proven skills in high-quality graphic design.
9) Reliability of the proposed systems for ensuring multilingualism.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/D3/467-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 29.8.2008.
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
5.9.2008 - 16:00.
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
17.9.2008 (10:00).
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative of each tenderer may attend the official opening.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, BP 403, F-67001Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
7.7.2008. 