L-Luxembourg: medical effectiveness of iodine prophylaxis in a nuclear reactor emergency situation and overview of European national practices

2008/S 136-181451

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Mr V. Tanner, EUFO 4152A, Jean-Monnet Building ? main entrance, rue Albert Wehrer, Plateau Kirchberg, L-2920 Luxembourg. Tel.  (352) 43 01-32297. Fax  (352) 43 01-34646. E-mail: Vesa.Tanner@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

as in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Medical effectiveness of iodine prophylaxis in a nuclear reactor emergency situation and overview of European national practices.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 10.
Main place of performance: the contractor's premises.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The contractor should compile the latest results in medical research on iodine prophylaxis and analyse in detail the current national practices of using this countermeasure in the EU Member States, candidate countries, Norway and Switzerland. The analysis should be critical in identifying possible inappropriate practices in the Member States.
For comparison purposes, the arrangements in Europe should be compared with corresponding arrangements in other major nuclear states (Russia, USA and Japan) and evaluated against the existing international guidance documents issued by international organisations (IAEA, WHO, EU and ICRP).
Based on the analysis, the contractor should identify the possible need for European harmonisation and outline the basic principles of a harmonised European approach on this countermeasure.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74312000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The amount of work involved to carry out this contract is estimated to correspond to a total amount of EUR 50 000. This includes the travel costs.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in the draft service contract. If the tenderer intends to subcontract part of the service, he shall indicate in this offer which part will be subcontracted and to what extent (% of the total contract value). Tenderers must inform the subcontractor(s) that Article II.17 of the contract (Annex 5) will be applied to them. Once the contract has been signed, Article II.13 of the above-mentioned contract shall govern the subcontracting.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortium) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firm or group of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
? All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on one of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate.
? If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person. Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in annex 1 and also provide the above-mentioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers should have at least 3 years experience in radiological/nuclear emergency preparedness, civil protection or in a relevant field related to research on these areas. If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have, and show that they have, the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them. Tenderers should provide with their offer detailed curriculum vitae (CV) of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publication and linguistic skills. The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance to the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L79 of 22.3.2002, p.66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/H4/57-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 5.9.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
12.9.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tender).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
24.9.2008 (11:00).
Place: Euroforum building ? Office 4152A, rue H.Schnadt ? ZA Cloche d'Or , L-2530 Luxembourg.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded from the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, Avenue du Président Robert Schuman BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/home/en/default.htm.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, on the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have an effect to either suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
4.7.2008. 