B-Brussels: feasibility study and impact assessment on the use of alternative fuels, including biofuels, for aviation

2008/S 124-165112

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Doris Schröcker, Rue Demot 24, 5/68, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 295 58 69. Fax  (32-2) 296 83 53. E-mail: doris.schroecker@ec.europa.eu.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Doris Schröcker, Rue Demot 28, 0/110, Archives, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel. (32-2) 295 58 69. Fax (32-2) 296 83 53. E-mail: doris.schroecker@ec.europa.eu.
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
Feasibility study and impact assessment on the use of alternative fuels, including biofuels, for aviation.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 10.
Main place of performance: the tasks will be performed on the contractor's premises. However, meetings between the contractor and the Commission may be held on Commission premises in B-Bruxelles/Brussel.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The interest in the possibility of replacing kerosene for supplying energy in aviation is increasing, prompted by increasing oil and kerosene prices, the dependence on fossil resources and the contribution of aviation to emissions causing global warming and affecting local air quality.
Some alternatives based on fossil fuels seem to be well under development and are being tested (synthetic fuels based on coal and gas, 1st generation biofuels). Other alternatives seem to be still in earlier phases of R&D (in particular biofuel based).
The objective of this comprehensive feasibility study is to identify and assess the most promising options for introducing alternative fuels, including sustainable biofuels, into aviation to replace partially or wholly the main current fuels, in particular kerosene, with special attention to their energy and overall environmental performance including greenhouse gas emissions.
The work includes modelling and business case considerations.
Further, the objective is to establish a European initiative involving all relevant stakeholders (manufacturers, airlines, airports, fuel suppliers, researchers, modelling and environmental specialists) to validate the results of work in the field of alternative fuels, from this and other EU-funded projects, to establish relations with similar initiatives at international level, to provide input to the co-operation with these initiatives and feedback to the European stakeholders, with special attention to the development of common specifications and standards and the possible deployment of new fuels.
The organisation of an international conference is part of the project.
The results of the study should serve as input to policy makers as well as to the aviation sector for the preparation of decisions and further activities at policy and sector level.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73220000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The total value of the contract has been estimated equivalent to about 5 000 person-days, including all expenses. Tenders must indicate a price for the requested work and results, which must be a fixed amount and include all expenses, such as travel expenses and daily allowances.
As background information on the different components of the total price, the tenderer(s) should specify for each task and for each tenderer different cost categories and related costs, and in particular identify the costs for technical tests including equipment, and modelling specifically performed under this contract (in total expected in the order of about 30 to 40 % of the costs).
All costs shall be presented also as an equivalent to a certain number of person/days on the basis of the following formula: total cost of equipment/tests/modelling = YY person-days x unit cost per person-day.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 26 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
Guarantee on pre-financing : for any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Pre-financing 30 %, interim payment 40 %, final payment 30 %.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company of the person heading the project, who will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met: all tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on one of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents:
the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and
a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years.
This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20% of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
The tenderers shall demonstrate that they have excellent knowledge relevant to carrying out the various tasks with at least 10 years' experience in the design and construction of aviation engines and a proven track record in environmental assessment, modelling and conference organisation.
Access to relevant projects, data and tools shall be demonstrated and measures to obtain other necessary input shall be described.
If several providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have, and show that they have, the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them.
Tenderers should provide with their offer a detailed curriculum vitae for each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including their educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills. The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance with the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curriculum vitae, published in OJ L79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
Non.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria:
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated below:
1. understanding of the requirements and discussion of the problem:
? understanding of, and compliance with, the tender specifications, (I.2)
? quality of the content of the technical proposal,
? demonstrating a holistic/integrated/multi-disciplinary approach to solving the problem, weighting: 45;
2. quality and suitability of proposed methodology and work programme:
? quality of task descriptions; adequacy of the allocation of partners and the tasks per partner,
? adequacy of the effort related to each activity,
? confidence that the proposed work plan is adequate, weighting: 35;
3. project management and quality assurance: demonstration of adequate project-management and quality-assurance plans, weighting: 20.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
Non.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/F2/408-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:

Prior information notice

Notice number in OJ: 2007/S 119-145489 of 23.6.2007.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 11.8.2008.
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
1.9.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tender).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
10.9.2008 (10:30).
Place: DG TREN, Rue Demot 24, B-1040 Bruxelles/Brussel.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
Each tenderer may be represented by not more than 1 person.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by eu funds:
Yes.
Reference to project(s) and/or programme(s): Pilot project.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03 1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: ECF.Registry@curia.eu.int. URL: http://curia.eu.int.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, avenue du Président Robert Schuman 1, BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.eu.int. URL: http://www.euro-ombudsman.eu.int.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals: Within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff or, in absence thereof, of the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have as an effect either to suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03 1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: ECJ.Registry@curia.eu.int. URL: http://curia.eu.int.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
16.6.2008. 