B-Brussels: a framework contract to provide expertise and related technical and logistical support for assistance to third countries in the field of aviation

2008/S 58-077537

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attn: Ewa Malinowska, Rue Demot 24 ? 05/120, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel. Tel.  (32-2) 298 69 41. Fax  (32-2) 296 06 58. E-mail: ewa.malinowska@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/transport/index_en.html.

Further information can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained from:

the above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

European Commission, Directorate-General Energy and Transport, Avenue du Bourget 1, attn: Archives DM?28 ? 0/110, B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussel.
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
A framework contract to provide expertise and related technical and logistical support for assistance to third countries in the field of aviation.
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 10.
Main place of performance:
the tasks will be performed in the respective third country. However, technical meetings may also be held in Brussels. In addition, meetings between the contractor and the Commission may be held on Commission premises in Brussels.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
The establishment of a framework agreement.
II.1.4) Information on framework agreement:
Framework agreement with several operators.
Number of participants to the framework agreement envisaged: 3.
Duration of the framework agreement: 4 years.
Estimated total value of purchases for the entire duration of the framework agreement: range: between EUR 200 000 and EUR 300 000.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
The European Commission wishes to have a framework contract that would allow a swift and efficient way for assisting it with tasks connected with activities and programmes in the area of external aviation relations. The purpose of this framework contract is to provide targeted technical assistance and its associated organisational support to respective third countries.
(a) The services to be provided under technical assistance support will take the form of provision of experts for short term missions.
(b) The required organisational support services are: organisation of experts missions, meeting/seminar venues and logistics, etc. The execution of the tasks described under points (a) and (b) above can, in principle, take place in the EU or in any third country. The possible targeted countries are:
? the Western Balkans partners of the ECAA (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia),
? countries participating in the European Neighbourhood Policy (Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Egypt, Georgia, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Moldova, Morocco, Palestinian Authority, Syria, Tunisia, Ukraine),
? other aviation partners (Russia, China, India),
? certain African and central Asian States.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
74131000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time-limit for completion:
Duration: 12 months from the award of the contract.


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
The successful tenderer may be requested to provide a deposit or a bank guarantee (see tender documents).
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Terms of payment figure in the tender documents and are those which are in force for service contracts at the European Commission.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company of the person heading the project, who will be, vis-à-vis the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firms or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
information must be provided as set out in the standard identification forms attached to these tender specifications:
? Annex I ? tenderer's identification,
? Annex II ? financial identification,
? Annex III ? legal entities.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years. This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
tenderers must provide proof of their technical and professional capacity by means of:
1) demonstrated capacity to find appropriate experts in the aviation sector for the fields of competence listed under point II.I.5) to carry out assignments as described therein;
2) demonstrated experience in the organisation and management of missions and meetings/seminars, as well as in the management of technical assistance projects;
3) list of the main services and tasks delivered during the last 5 years which are of relevance to the scope of this framework contract (separately for the technical assistance support and for the organisational support), as well as related amounts, dates and beneficiaries with mention of sector they belong to (private/public). Tenderers, should provide with their offer a report of the average annual manpower in the last 3 years and the number of staff as well as an indication of the in-house available information and of contacts (e.g. with consultancy firms, public administrations, universities, industry associations, etc.) allowing efficient mobilisation of experts. If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have and show that they have the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them. Tenderers should provide with their offer detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work related to the execution of this contract, including his or her educational background, professional experience and linguistic skills. The CV's shall be presented, preferably, in accordance to the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/F1/348-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time-limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents:
8.5.2008 (16:00).
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time-limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
15.5.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration: 6 months from the date stated for receipt of tender.
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
29.5.2008 (10:00).
Place: Rue Demot 28, B-1040 Bruxelles/Brussel (mail department: ground floor, office 110).
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
This opening session will be public. Each tenderer may be represented by not more than 1 person.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specification related to this call can be downloaded from the web site of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: ecj.registry@curia.eu.int. URL: http://curia.eu.int.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman, BP 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.eu.int. URL: http://www.euro-ombudsman.eu.int.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
within 2 months of the date of notification of the claimant or, failing this, the date on which he was informed thereof. The lodging of a complaint with the European Ombudsman can neither suspend the deadline nor give rise to a new deadline.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of First Instance of the European Communities, boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 37 66. E-mail: ecj.registry@curia.eu.int. URL: http://curia.eu.int.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
10.3.2008. 