L-Luxembourg: European Medical ALARA Network (EMAN)

2008/S 179-238089

Contract notice

Services


Section I: Contracting authority

I.1) Name, addresses and contact point(s):

European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, attention: Mr Georgi Simeonov ? EUFO 4152, Jean Monnet Building ? Main entrance, rue Albert Wehrer, plateau de Kirchberg, L-2920 Luxembourg. Tel.  (352) 43 01-31420. Fax  (352) 43 01-34646. E-mail: Georgi.Simeonov@ec.europa.eu.

Internet address(es):

General address of the contracting authority: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.

Further information can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Specifications and additional documents (including documents for competitive dialogue and a dynamic purchasing system) can be obtained at:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).

Tenders or requests to participate must be sent to:

As in above-mentioned contact point(s).
I.2) Type of the contracting authority and main activity or activities:
European institution/agency or international organisation.
The contracting authority is purchasing on behalf of other contracting authorities: no.


Section II: Object of the contract

II.1) Description
II.1.1) Title attributed to the contract by the contracting authority:
European Medical ALARA Network (EMAN).
II.1.2) Type of contract and location of works, place of delivery or of performance:
Services.
Service category: No 08.
Main place of performance: Contractor's premises.
II.1.3) The notice involves:
A public contract.
II.1.5) Short description of the contract or purchase(s):
Objective:
The Commission wishes to establish a stakeholder's network where different topics relating to implementation of the ALARA principle in the medical field will be discussed and information will be exchanged. The network will support the Commission in its activities relating to the radiation protection of individuals submitted to medical exposure. In line with this objective, the network should be known as the European ALARA Medical Network or EMAN.
In addition to its prime function of being a forum for discussion of radiation protection issues in the medical field, the EMAN shall:
? disseminate up-to-date information about literature, studies and good practices,
? identify and communicate to the Commission needs for development and update of EU guidance,
? if appropriate, provide input to the process of recasting the European BSS,
? formulate proposals to the EC on harmonisation issues,
? propose to the EC other solutions of the identified issues,
? establish cooperation with other international organisations and associations.
The contractor shall:
? provide necessary human and technical resources for development and operation of the network,
? identify appropriate contact points willing to participate in EMAN. The contact points shall be selected in a way ensuring good representation of different stakeholders from a maximum number of EU Member States,
? elaborate a methodology of the European Medical ALARA Network,
? establish the infrastructure of EMAN,
? ensure day-to-day operation of the network,
? deliver periodically the products of the EMAN's operation to the Commission,
? organise a European workshop to discuss the work of the EMAN as well as specific issues defined in coordination with Article 31 WP MED.
Specific issues for EMAN's initial consideration:
3 applications of ionising radiation in medicine nowadays deserve special attention, namely:
? computed tomography (CT),
? interventional procedures,
? the use of X-ray equipment outside radiology departments.
Therefore those issues should be first dealt with, the initial aim being to produce and publish on the website a synthesis document presenting the state of the art in the respective field and the identified questions for further discussion. Further work shall be focused on discussing the identified issues and proposing solutions or further actions to resolve them, as defined in the objectives in the contract.
II.1.6) Common procurement vocabulary (CPV):
73200000.
II.1.7) Contract covered by the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA):
Yes.
II.1.8) Division into lots:
No.
II.1.9) Variants will be accepted:
No.
II.2) Quantity or scope of the contract
II.2.1) Total quantity or scope:
The total value of the contract has been estimated at 500 man-days.
II.2.2) Options:
No.
II.3) Duration of the contract or time limit for completion:
Duration in months: 12 (from the award of the contract).


Section III: Legal, economic, financial and technical information

III.1) Conditions relating to the contract
III.1.1) Deposits and guarantees required:
For any pre-financing higher than EUR 100 000, a financial guarantee equivalent to the amount of the pre-financing will be requested. Depending on the financial situation of the tenderer, the Commission may ask for the financial guarantee for amounts lower than EUR 100 000.
III.1.2) Main financing conditions and payment arrangements and/or reference to the relevant provisions regulating them:
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions specified in the draft service contract.
III.1.3) Legal form to be taken by the group of economic operators to whom the contract is to be awarded:
Groupings, irrespective of their legal form, may submit bids. Tenderers may, after forming a grouping, submit a joint bid on condition that it complies with the rules of competition. Such groupings (or consortia) must specify the company or person heading the project and must also submit a copy of the document authorising this company or person to submit a bid. If awarded, the contract will be signed by the company or the person heading the project, who will be, 'vis-à-vis' the Commission, the only contracting party responsible for the performance of this contract. Tenders from a consortium of firm or groups of service providers, contractors or suppliers must specify the role, qualifications and experience of each member of the consortium or group. Each member must provide all the necessary documents for assessing the bid as a whole with regard to the exclusion criteria, selection criteria (all of them) and award criteria.
III.1.4) Other particular conditions to which the performance of the contract is subject:
No.
III.2) Conditions for participation
III.2.1) Personal situation of economic operators, including requirements relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
? All tenderers must provide proof of registration, as prescribed in their country of establishment, on 1 of the professional or trade registers or provide a declaration or certificate.
? If the tenderer is a natural person, he/she must provide a copy of his/her identity card/passport or driving licence and proof that he/she is covered by a social security scheme as a self-employed person.
Each tenderer (including subcontractor(s) or any member of a consortium or grouping) must complete and sign the identification forms in Annex 1 and also provide the above-mentioned documents. However, the subcontractor(s) shall not be required to fill in or provide those documents when the services represent less than 20 % of the contract.
III.2.2) Economic and financial capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
Tenderers must provide proof of their financial and economic capacity by means of the following documents: the balance sheets or extracts from balance sheets for the last 3 financial years, and a statement of overall turnover and turnover relating to the relevant services for the last 3 financial years.
This rule applies to all service providers, regardless of the percentage of tasks they intend to execute, once they have chosen to submit a tender. However, if the tender includes subcontractors whose tasks represent less than 20 % of the contract, those subcontractors are not obliged to provide evidence of their economic and financial capacity.
III.2.3) Technical capacity:
Information and formalities necessary for evaluating if requirements are met:
1) detailed information on the technical expertise and resources to deal in-depth with all issues related to the study (qualification in radiation protection, medical applications and European legislation on these fields; a minimum of 10 years' working experience in these fields);
2) list of previous work delivered during the last 10 years in a similar field;
3) proof of the existence of contacts with relevant organisations in the fields of radiation protection of individuals submitted to medical exposures, occupational radiation protection of medical staff and education of staff involved in medical applications;
4) part of the contract which the service provider intends to subcontract.
If several service providers/subcontractors are involved in the bid, each of them must have and show that they have the professional and technical capacity to perform the tasks assigned to them.
Tenderers should provide with their offer the detailed curriculum vitae of each staff member responsible for carrying out the work, including his or her educational background, degrees and diplomas, professional experience, research work, publications and linguistic skills.
The CVs shall be presented, preferably, in accordance with the Commission Recommendation on a common European format for curricula vitae, published in OJ L 79 of 22.3.2002, p. 66.
III.2.4) Reserved contracts:
No.
III.3) Conditions specific to services contracts
III.3.1) Execution of the service is reserved to a particular profession:
No.
III.3.2) Legal entities should indicate the names and professional qualifications of the staff responsible for the execution of the service:
Yes.


Section IV: Procedure

IV.1) Type of procedure
IV.1.1) Type of procedure:
Open.
IV.2) Award criteria
IV.2.1) Award criteria:
The most economically advantageous tender in terms of the criteria stated in the specifications, in the invitation to tender or to negotiate or in the descriptive document.
IV.2.2) An electronic auction will be used:
No.
IV.3) Administrative information
IV.3.1) File reference number attributed by the contracting authority:
TREN/H4/152-2008.
IV.3.2) Previous publication(s) concerning the same contract:
No.
IV.3.3) Conditions for obtaining specifications and additional documents or descriptive document:
Time limit for receipt of requests for documents or for accessing documents: 31.10.2008.
Payable documents: no.
IV.3.4) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate:
7.11.2008 (16:00).
IV.3.6) Language(s) in which tenders or requests to participate may be drawn up:
Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish.
IV.3.7) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender:
Duration in month(s): 6 (from the date stated for receipt of tenders).
IV.3.8) Conditions for opening tenders:
Date: 17.11.2008 (11:00).
Place: Euroforum Building, Office 4158, 1, rue Henry Schnadt, Zone d'activités Cloche d'Or, L-2530 Luxembourg.
Persons authorised to be present at the opening of tenders: yes.
1 representative per tenderer.


Section VI: Complementary information

VI.1) This is a recurrent procurement:
No.
VI.2) Contract related to a project and/or programme financed by EU funds:
No.
VI.3) Additional information:

The tender specifications related to this call for tender can be downloaded on the website of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/energy_transport/tenders/index_en.htm.
VI.4) Procedures for appeal
VI.4.1) Body responsible for appeal procedures:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.

Body responsible for mediation procedures:

The European Ombudsman, 1, avenue du Président Robert Schuman B.P. 403, F-67001 Strasbourg Cedex. Tel. (33) 388 17 23 13. Fax (33) 388 17 90 62. E-mail: euro-ombudsman@europarl.europa.eu. URL: http://www.ombudsman.europa.eu/home/en/default.htm.
VI.4.2) Lodging of appeals:
Precise information on deadline(s) for lodging appeals:
Within 2 months of the notification to the plaintiff, or, in absence thereof, on the day on which it came to knowledge. A complaint to the European Ombudsman does not have an effect to either suspend this period or to open a new period for lodging appeals.
VI.4.3) Service from which information about the lodging of appeals may be obtained:

Court of the First Instance of the European Communities, rue du Fort Niedergrünewald, L-2925 Luxembourg. Tel. (352) 43 03-1. Fax (352) 43 03-2100. E-mail: CFI.registry@curia.europa.eu. URL: http://curia.europa.eu.
VI.5) Date of dispatch of this notice:
4.9.2008. 